[IndexedDB article] Minor rework in preparation of the ETT session (#8485)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/blog/indexeddb/index.md

IndexedDB API directly.

## What is IndexedDB? {: #what }

IndexedDB is a large-scale, NoSQL storage system. It lets you store just about anything in the
user's browser. In addition to the usual search, get, and put actions, IndexedDB also supports
transactions. Here is the definition of IndexedDB on MDN:

> IndexedDB is a low-level API for client-side storage of significant amounts of structured data,
> including files/blobs. This API uses indexes to enable high performance searches of this data.
> While DOM Storage is useful for storing smaller amounts of data, it is less useful for storing
> larger amounts of structured data. IndexedDB provides a solution.

Each IndexedDB database is unique to an [origin](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Glossary/Origin)
(typically, this is the site domain or subdomain), meaning it cannot access or be accessed by any
other origin. [Data storage limits](/storage-for-the-web/) are usually quite large, if they exist at
all, but different browsers handle limits and data eviction differently. See the
[Further reading](#resources) section for more information.

## IndexedDB terms {: #terms }

> **[Database](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/IDBDatabase):** This is the highest level of

Author: Done.

IndexedDB. It contains the object stores, which in turn contain the data you would like to persist.
You can create multiple databases with whatever names you choose.

**[Object store](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/IDBObjectStore):** An object store is an
individual bucket to store data. You can think of object stores as being similar to tables in
traditional relational databases. Typically, there is one object store for each _type_ (not
JavaScript data type) of data you are storing. For example, given an app that persists blog posts
and user profiles, you could imagine two object stores. Unlike tables in traditional databases, the
actual JavaScript data types of data within the store do not need to be consistent (for example, if
there are three people in the `people` object store, their age properties could be `53`,
`'twenty-five'`, and `unknown` ).

> **[Index](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/IDBIndex):** An Index is a kind of object store

Author: ```suggestion
**[Index](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/IDBIndex):** A kind of object store
```

for organizing data in another object store (called the reference object store) by an individual
property of the data. The index is used to retrieve records in the object store by this property.
For example, if you're storing people, you may want to fetch them later by their name, age, or
favorite animal.

**Operation:** An interaction with the database.

> **[Transaction](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/IDBTransaction):** A transaction is a

Author: ```suggestion
**[Transaction](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/IDBTransaction):** A
```

  if (!upgradeDb.objectStoreNames.contains('firstOS')) {
    upgradeDb.createObjectStore('firstOS');
  }
});
```

Again, you first check the browser for IndexedDB support. This time you include the callback
function in `idb.open()` in order to create the object store. The browser throws an error if you try
to create an object store that already exists in the database so you wrap the `createObjectStore()`
method in an `if` statement that checks if the object store exists. Inside the `if` block you call
`createObjectStore()` on the `UpgradeDB` object to create an object store named `"firstOS"`.

### Defining primary keys

When you define object stores, you can define how data is uniquely identified in the store using the
primary key. You can define a primary key by either defining a key path, or by using a key
generator.

A _key path_ is a property that always exists and contains a unique value. For example, in the case
of a `people` object store, you could choose the email address as the key path.

```js
upgradeDb.createObjectStore('people', { keyPath: 'email' });
```

This example creates an object store called `"people"` and assigns the `email` property as the

> primary key.

Author: It changes potentially, but it's always unique. So I would say for the sake of the example at least: yes.

operations: get the database object, create a transaction, open an object store on the transaction,
and perform the operation on the object store.

### Deleting data

To delete data, call the
[`delete()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/IDBObjectStore/delete) method on the object
store.

```js
someObjectStore.delete(primaryKey);
```

Once again, this method returns a promise and must be wrapped in a transaction. Here is a simple
example:

```js
dbPromise
  .then(function (db) {
    const tx = db.transaction('store', 'readwrite');
    const store = tx.objectStore('store');
    store.delete(key);
    return tx.complete;
  })
  .then(function () {
    console.log('Item deleted.');
  });
```

The structure of the database interaction is the same as for the other operations. Note that you
again check that the whole transaction has completed by returning the `tx.complete()` method to be
sure that the deletion was carried out.

## Getting all the data {: #get }

So far you have only retrieved objects from the store one at a time. You can also retrieve all of
the data (or a subset) from an object store or index using either the `getAll()` method or using
cursors.

> ### Using the `getAll()` method

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Using the getAll() method
```

Reviewer: Not in headings. 

The reason for marking this way in text is not calling out code, per se. The traditional English way of calling out something extra in text would have been to put quotation marks around it. This could be misinterpreted as part of the code in many situations. Using special formatting is merely about avoiding confusion. 

Avoiding special formatting in headings is about aesthetics; it avoids ransom note look.

`undefined` if there are no more objects. You put this inside a loop to move through all of the
entries in the store one by one. The optional key range in the `openCursor()` method limits the
iteration to a subset of the objects in the store. The direction option can be `next` or `prev`,
specifying forward or backward traversal through the data.

The next example uses a cursor to iterate through all the items in the "store" object store and log
them to the console:

```js
dbPromise
  .then(function (db) {
    const tx = db.transaction('store', 'readonly');
    const store = tx.objectStore('store');
    return store.openCursor();
  })
  .then(function logItems(cursor) {
    if (!cursor) {
      return;
    }
    console.log('Cursored at:', cursor.key);
    for (const field in cursor.value) {
      console.log(cursor.value[field]);
    }
    return cursor.continue().then(logItems);
  })
  .then(function () {
    console.log('Done cursoring.');
  });
```

As usual, you start by getting the database object, creating a transaction, and opening an object
store. You call the `openCursor()` method on the object store and pass the cursor object to the

> callback function in `.then()`. This time you name the callback function `"logItems"` so you can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
callback function in `.then()`. This time you name the callback function "`logItems()`" so you can
```

`cursor.continue().then(logItems)`. The `cursor.continue()` method returns a promise that resolves
to a cursor object representing the next item in the store or `undefined` if there are no more
objects. This result is passed to the callback function in `.then()`, which you have chosen to be
`logItems()`, so that the function loops. Consequently, `logItems()` continues to call itself until
no objects remain.

### Working with ranges and indexes {: #ranges }

You can get all the data in a couple of different ways, but what if you want only a subset of the
data based on a particular property? This is where indexes come in. Indexes let you fetch the data
in an object store by a property other than the primary key. You can create an index on any property
(which becomes the keypath for the index), specify a range on that property, and get the data within
the range using the `getAll()` method or a cursor.

You define the range using the `IDBKeyRange` object. This object has four methods that are used to
define the limits of the range: `upperBound()`, `lowerBound()`, `bound()` (which means both), and

> `only()`. As expected, the `upperBound()` and `lowerBound()` methods specify the upper and lower

Reviewer: `only()` is never defined.

Author: `includes()` was also missing. Adding links.

objects).

The cursor object contains a `key` property that represents the primary key for the item. It also
contains a `value` property that represents the data. At the end of `logItems()`, you return
`cursor.continue().then(logItems)`. The `cursor.continue()` method returns a promise that resolves
to a cursor object representing the next item in the store or `undefined` if there are no more
objects. This result is passed to the callback function in `.then()`, which you have chosen to be
`logItems()`, so that the function loops. Consequently, `logItems()` continues to call itself until
no objects remain.

### Working with ranges and indexes {: #ranges }

You can get all the data in a couple of different ways, but what if you want only a subset of the
data based on a particular property? This is where indexes come in. Indexes let you fetch the data
in an object store by a property other than the primary key. You can create an index on any property
(which becomes the keypath for the index), specify a range on that property, and get the data within
the range using the `getAll()` method or a cursor.

> You define the range using the `IDBKeyRange` object. This object has four methods that are used to
> define the limits of the range: `upperBound()`, `lowerBound()`, `bound()` (which means both), and
> `only()`. As expected, the `upperBound()` and `lowerBound()` methods specify the upper and lower

Author: ```suggestion
You define the range using the `IDBKeyRange` object. This object has five methods that are used to
define the limits of the range:

- [`upperBound()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/IDBKeyRange/upperBound)
- [`lowerBound()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/IDBKeyRange/lowerBound)
- [`bound()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/IDBKeyRange/bound) (which means both)
- [`only()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/IDBKeyRange/only)
- [`includes()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/IDBKeyRange/includes)

As expected, the `upperBound()` and `lowerBound()` methods specify the upper and lower
```

index and pass in the range. The cursor now returns a promise representing the first object in the
range, or `undefined` if there is no data within the range. The `cursor.continue()` method returns a
cursor representing the next object and so on through the loop until you reach the end of the range.

## Using database versioning {: #versioning }

When you call `idb.open()`, you can specify the database version number in the second parameter. If
this version number is greater than the version of the existing database, the upgrade callback
executes, allowing you to add object stores and indexes to the database.

{% Aside %} The browser throws an error if you try to create object stores or indexes that already
exist in the database. You can wrap the calls to `createObjectStore` in `if` statements checking if
the object store already exists using `upgradeDb.objectStoreNames.contains('objectStoreName')`. You
can also use a `switch` statement on the `oldVersion` property as in the next example.
{% endAside %}

The `UpgradeDB` object has a special `oldVersion` property, which indicates the version number of

> the database existing in the browser. You can pass this version number into a `switch` statement to

Reviewer: >existing in the browser

The version number of an existing database already in the browswer? Or are you trying to convey something else?

Author: Yes, the version number of an existing database already in the browser.

execute blocks of code inside the upgrade callback based on the existing database version number.
Here's an example:

```js
const dbPromise = idb.open('test-db7', 2, function (upgradeDb) {
  switch (upgradeDb.oldVersion) {
    case 0:
      upgradeDb.createObjectStore('store', { keyPath: 'name' });
    case 1:
      const peopleStore = upgradeDb.transaction.objectStore('store');
      peopleStore.createIndex('price', 'price');
  }
});
```

In the example you have set the newest version of the database at 2. When this code first executes,

> since the database doesn't yet exist in the browser, `upgradeDb.oldVersion` is 0 and the `switch`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and since the database doesn't yet exist in the browser, `upgradeDb.oldVersion` is 0 and the `switch`
```

## Appendix

### Comparison of IndexedDB API and IndexedDB Promised library

The IndexedDB Promised library sits on top of the IndexedDB API, translating its requests into
promises. The overall structure is the same between the library and the API and, in general, the
actual syntax for the database operations is the same and they will act the same way. But there are
a few differences because of the differences between requests and promises, which are covered here.

All database interactions in the IndexedDB API are requests and have associated `onsuccess` and
`onerror` event handlers. These are similar to the `.then()` and `.catch()` promise functions. The
`indexedDB.open()` method in the raw API also gets a special event handler, `onupgradeneeded`, which
is used to create the object stores and indexes. This is equivalent to the upgrade callback in
`idb.open()` in the Promised library. In fact, if you look through the Promised library, you will
find the upgrade callback is just a convenient wrapper for the `onupgradeneeded` event handler.

> Here's an example of the IndexedDB API. In this example you will open a database, add an object
> store, and add one item to the object store:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here's an example of the IndexedDB API. This example opens a database, adds an object
store, and adds one item to the object store:
```
